---
layout: post
title:  "Two more"
date:   2015-04-11 13:18:20
categories: traceuse
comments: disqus
tags: traceuse, parkour	
---
I once made a comment in the PKPH group about how I felt more like a spectator than a traceuse when we train. For the last two weeks of March I didn't really feel like going to bansay. Towards the end of the month I tend to get discouraged about my progress and I start to wonder whether what I'm putting my time into is really paying off. Funny, what saved me from balking was our venue permit. I had volunteered to be the contact person for UP Diliman. I felt obliged to attend since I was already the person talking to the guards there. I also posted about showing up to parkour a few weeks ago. While only a handful of people really know about this blog, I didn't want to eat my words either. So I forced myself to show up.

<br>

My brain was in a slump, I didn't think showing up twice in two weeks would make a difference. I'm happy to be proven wrong. Over the past few weeks I've developed a love/hate relationship with walls. I've grown to like flopping down on the grass and rising up with bits of dried leaves clinging to my clothes. I even wanted to roll in the stuff after a grueling set of push ups. I forgot about counting jumps, vaults, distances covered. I stopped quantifying so much in my training log. I described more. I imagined rocks as giant chunks of red jello that would splatter into a gooey mess if I landed loudly. One midnight, I found myself doing ground kongs in the middle of writing a paper outside (afterwards my sister had to ask why I was typing with such filthy hands). 

<br>

I recall getting annoyed at repeatedly encountering various ways of people saying "you can't know parkour unless you've done it". But I had to agree. I also remember reading a lot about training alone, and being skeptical about the hype. But, heck, that one's also true. 

<br>

Since it was the end of March I finally trained alone to film my month's progress. I had wanted to do this since February because I figured I'm only going to be new at this once. I wanted to capture my awkwardness with the goal of contrasting it to next month's progress. I had asked Joles a few weeks back how she got the guts to train alone and she told me music and earphones really helped. Given my oblivious nature, that sounded like an accident already. So I just wore a pair of my earbuds without pumping any music. This really helped, haha. Earbuds without music are awesome for pretending not to give a fuck. 

<br>

...Which surprisingly, I did not give much of to begin with. I just wanted to roll and jump. And climb. Perhaps it takes that little nudge to stop being a spectator. The moment when wanting to move overpowers the fear of being looked at and judged. It's not even proper to describe it as overpowering, caring about doing a weird roll just faded into the background. Perhaps you participate in parkour the moment you can laugh at yourself, the moment when you legitimately start longing to move. 

<br>

It feels more authentic now, referring to myself as a traceuse. Two months ago I hated rolls. Last bansay I wanted to do them. Forward, even left and right without even being told how to. I'm still working on my backward rolls as I never managed to get those right. But I find I don't mind trying and failing (so long as it doesn't hurt!) so much. I don't feel lost during playtime. I even tried a bit of capoeira. And that makes me happy, that I'm beginning to warm up to failure. 

<br>

I wrote this because wanting to give up on parkour is legit. This is probably not the last time I'll feel this way. But the next time I do, I'll give it two more weeks, maybe two more months. It took me that long to relearn how to play, who knows what else will surprise me. 

 

